Penetration testing is a method of testing where
ethical hackers target a resource to determine
whether vulnerabilities can be exploited to compromise an environment or asset.
There are two sides to penetration testing.
The blue team is the group responsible for
defending and enterprises use of information systems.
So their job is to maintain the security posture against a group of mock attackers.
For example, the red team, which we'll talk about next.
Typically, the blue team and its supporters must defend against real or simulated attacks
that happen over a significant period of time in a representative operational contexts,
for example, as a part of an operational exercise and according to rules
established and monitored with the help of
a neutral group that's refereeing the exercise,
so almost like someone who's there to judge how well the test is going.
The red team is a group of people authorized and organized to emulate
a potential adversaries attack or
exploitation capabilities against an enterprise security posture.
These are ethical hackers essentially.
The red team's objective is to improve enterprise security by demonstrating
the impacts of successful attacks and by demonstrating what works for the defenders,
otherwise known as the blue team,
that we just talked about in an operating environment.
These are different approaches to testing that
a red team can use to conduct a penetration test.
One of the types is referred to as white-box testing,
so this is a testing methodology that assumes
explicit and substantial knowledge of
the internal structure and implementation details of the assessment target.
This is good for testing insider threats
because they tend to have insider knowledge of the system as well.
The second type is called black-box testing.
Black-box testing is a methodology that assumes no knowledge
of the internal structure and implementation detail on the assessment target.
This one is good for testing external threats because
typical non insider hackers don't have a lot of
knowledge on the inner workings of the company upfront.
The last type is called gray-box testing.
Gray-box testing is a methodology that assumes some knowledge of
the internal structure and implementation details on the assessment target.
This is a good middle ground between the two types.
We've already established that penetration testing is all about trying to
test and potentially break into your own systems before malicious hackers do.
One of the most common ways that systems get
breached is through weak or compromised passwords.
These are an easy shoe in for attackers,
and it's also a good area to pentest,.
That's what we'll use as an example.
Let's say you're on a red team tasked with testing password security.
So your job is to actively try to
exploit a weak password vulnerability by cracking the password.
There are a variety of methods you can use to crack a password, for example,
brute force attacks or where you try
every possible combination of characters until one works.
Dictionary attacks involve identifying commonly used passwords by trying
to match a known list of password hashes
with the list of hashed passwords you are trying to crack.
Here's a basic example,
remember that passwords are stored as hashes,
and so if you are able to get the hash of
an employee's password while you were doing a pentest,
that alone might not get you into the system.
However, if you can find
the employees password hash in your attack dictionary of common words that you've hashed,
then you can guess the password.
In this example, based on the employee hash ending in 77,
you can look at the attack dictionary and know that the employees password is pink,
this is a basic example of a dictionary attack.
You can carry out these attacks quickly with password cracking tools.
In this course, we'll use a tool called hashcat.
If you wanted to crack a password in hashcat,
you'd need to specify the type of hash being used.
For example, MD5, sha256,
and others, you'd need to specify the attack mode.
In hashcat, the options include brute force or dictionary attacks,
rule-based attacks, and more.
Then you need to point to the file that
contains the hashes of the passwords you want to crack,
and the file that contains the hashed dictionary terms.
All of this will make up the command line that you enter
in to the command prompt or user-interface,
depending on what version of hashcat you decide to use.
In this class, we're using Windows,
and so it would be in the CMD application.
We'll come up with an example string.
If you have MD5 hashes,
and you're trying to run a dictionary attack,
here's an example command.
In this case, the hash type is -M0.
Now, there is a list of hundreds of hash types in the tool,
so if you wanted to use different ones,
you'd change the number from zero to the correct corresponding number.
Attack mode is -a0,
so same as hash types,
there are other attack modes,
and you can change the number from zero to other options in the tool.
Next is the hash file,
which is hash.txt in this case.
Finally, you point to your dictionary file,
which in this case a secret.dict.
Now, once you hit enter on this command in a hashcat,
it will run the process to check and see if
any passwords in the hash file are in the dictionary.
If there are matches,
it will expose them in clear text.
This is one of the many ways to actively test security and find weaknesses.